README.md, before:

# Binpot

The statically compiled, cross architecture, Docker based, binaries pot.

## Usage

The usage is focused to build other Docker images.

For example:

```Dockerfile
FROM alpine:3.13
COPY --from=qmcgaw/binpot:helm /bin /usr/local/bin/helm
```

- The Docker image tags for `qmcgaw/binpot` follow the following formatting:
  - `:name` for the latest stable version of the program `name`
  - `:name-v0.0.0` for the semver version of the program `name`
- Each Docker image is based on [scratch](https://hub.docker.com/_/scratch) and only contain the binary program at the path `/bin`.
- Each Docker image and binary program is built for each of the possible CPU architecture supported by Docker, unless indicated otherwise.
- Each binary has permissions `500` (read and execute for the user owner)
- You can change the ownership in the `COPY` command using `--chown=1000` for example, without duplicating the binary in your Docker image layers.
- Each Docker image has an entrypoint `[ "/bin" ]` so you can run it as well

**Need help?** ▶️ [Create a discussion](https://github.com/qdm12/binpot/discussions)

## Programs available

| Program | Version | Image tag | Architectures |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `golangci-lint` | `v1.41.1` | `:golangci-lint` | all but `linux/riscv64` |
| `golangci-lint` | `v1.41.1` | `:golangci-lint-v1.41.1` | all but `linux/riscv64` |
| `gopls` | `v0.7.0` | `:gopls` | all |
| `gopls` | `v0.7.0` | `:gopls-v0.7.0` | all |
| `helm` | `v3.6.1` | `:helm` | all but `linux/riscv64` |
| `helm` | `v3.6.1` | `:helm-v3.6.1` | all but `linux/riscv64` |
| `kubectl` | `v1.21.1` | `:kubectl` | all |
| `kubectl` | `v1.21.1` | `:kubectl-v1.21.1` | all |
| `kubectx` | `v0.9.3` | `:kubectx` | all |
| `kubectx` | `v0.9.3` | `:kubectx-v0.9.3` | all |
| `kubens` | `v0.9.3` | `:kubens` | all |
| `kubens` | `v0.9.3` | `:kubens-v0.9.3` | all |
| `stern` | `v1.18.0` | `:stern` | all |
| `stern` | `v1.18.0` | `:stern-v1.18.0` | all |

ℹ️ `all` architectures means: linux/amd64,linux/386,linux/arm64,linux/arm/v7,linux/arm/v6,linux/ppc64le,linux/s390x,linux/riscv64

**Want more!?** ▶️ [Create an issue!](https://github.com/qdm12/binpot/issues)

## How it works

1. For each program, a Dockerfile describes how to build it. The final binary is placed on a final [scratch](https://hub.docker.com/_/scratch) based Docker image. *Example:* `helm` has [`./dockerfiles/helm/Dockerfile`](dockerfiles/helm/Dockerfile)
2. For each program, a Github Action workflow is triggered when its Dockerfile or the workflow itself is changed. This workflow takes care of:
    1. Cross build the program for many CPU architectures
    2. Pushing the images containing the program to Docker Hub

Commit message:

Build images for all architectures

README.md, after:

# Binpot

The statically compiled, cross architecture, Docker based, binaries pot.

## Usage

The usage is focused to build other Docker images.

For example:

```Dockerfile
FROM alpine:3.13
COPY --from=qmcgaw/binpot:helm /bin /usr/local/bin/helm
```

- The Docker image tags for `qmcgaw/binpot` follow the following formatting:
  - `:name` for the latest stable version of the program `name`
  - `:name-v0.0.0` for the semver version of the program `name`
- Each Docker image is based on [scratch](https://hub.docker.com/_/scratch) and only contain the binary program at the path `/bin`.
- Each Docker image and binary program is built for each of the possible CPU architecture supported by Docker, unless indicated otherwise.
- Each binary has permissions `500` (read and execute for the user owner)
- You can change the ownership in the `COPY` command using `--chown=1000` for example, without duplicating the binary in your Docker image layers.
- Each Docker image has an entrypoint `[ "/bin" ]` so you can run it as well

**Need help?** ▶️ [Create a discussion](https://github.com/qdm12/binpot/discussions)

## Programs available

| Program | Version | Image tag | Architectures |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `golangci-lint` | `v1.41.1` | `:golangci-lint` | all but `linux/riscv64` |
| `golangci-lint` | `v1.41.1` | `:golangci-lint-v1.41.1` | all but `linux/riscv64` |
| `gopls` | `v0.7.0` | `:gopls` | all |
| `gopls` | `v0.7.0` | `:gopls-v0.7.0` | all |
| `helm` | `v3.6.1` | `:helm` | all but `linux/riscv64` |
| `helm` | `v3.6.1` | `:helm-v3.6.1` | all but `linux/riscv64` |
| `kubectl` | `v1.21.1` | `:kubectl` | all |
| `kubectl` | `v1.21.1` | `:kubectl-v1.21.1` | all |
| `kubectx` | `v0.9.3` | `:kubectx` | all |
| `kubectx` | `v0.9.3` | `:kubectx-v0.9.3` | all |
| `kubens` | `v0.9.3` | `:kubens` | all |
| `kubens` | `v0.9.3` | `:kubens-v0.9.3` | all |
| `stern` | `v1.18.0` | `:stern` | all |
| `stern` | `v1.18.0` | `:stern-v1.18.0` | all |

ℹ️ `all` architectures means: linux/amd64,linux/386,linux/arm64,linux/arm/v7,linux/arm/v6,linux/ppc64le,linux/s390x,linux/riscv64

💁 Note that all images are built for all architectures even if the program does not support it.
That means that, for example for `helm`, a substitute Go program printing `helm v3.6.1 is unavailable on linux/riscv64` and exiting with exit code `1` is used for unsupported platforms.
This is like so so you can still cross build with all the architectures, especially if the program is an optional dependency.
This is often the case for VSCode development containers for instance. In this case, if you try to build for `riscv64` and require `helm` as an optional dependency, your `COPY --from=qmcgaw/binpot:helm` will not fail.

**Want more!?** ▶️ [Create an issue!](https://github.com/qdm12/binpot/issues)

## How it works

1. For each program, a Dockerfile describes how to build it. The final binary is placed on a final [scratch](https://hub.docker.com/_/scratch) based Docker image. *Example:* `helm` has [`./dockerfiles/helm/Dockerfile`](dockerfiles/helm/Dockerfile)
2. For each program, a Github Action workflow is triggered when its Dockerfile or the workflow itself is changed. This workflow takes care of:
    1. Cross build the program for many CPU architectures
    2. Pushing the images containing the program to Docker Hub
